All right in this video you're going to be talking about active streams and how they relate to Spring
Framework 5.
Now the re-active streams API.
The goal was to create a standard for asynchronous stream processing with nonblocking back pressure
so all the reactive stuff that we've been talking about the initiative was started in 2013 by engineers
from Netflix pivotal and light penlight business formerly typesafe and just as an interesting tidbit.
Ron Johnson the founder of Spring Framework actually worked for the board of directors for typesafe
I think at this point in time he's moved on I'm not I'm percent sure on that but I think he is pursuing
other things at this point in time but he was with typesafe and Ben is now the company that has been
VC funded and they are supporting the Skala language and scows some cool stuff and then do have reacted
streams API is actually just a set of four interfaces which define their API and then there's actually
a specification about the behavior we expect in the implementation those faces.
But I'm not going to get into that.
The 1.0 release was done in 2015.
And what's notable is under JTP 2 6 6 recta streams is now going to be part of the Java 9 JDK.
So that will be a fully recognized feature inside of Java 9 and so that is going to be there in the
future.
Now there's a number of adoptions in the landscape right now is changing quickly because there's always
new stuff coming out and a reactive community is becoming more and more active so we have a cost streams
and that's Scallan.
DP ratpack reactive rabbit which I have not played with yet but I hope to project reactor that's the
spring implementation.
Our next Java if I remember right that is from the folks at Netflix.
So all of these support the re-active streams API.
So these different adaptions now should at least in theory play nicely together and work nicely together.
Now like I said a moment ago the 1 0 0 release was done in 2015 and I am recording this an August 15th
2017 so just not in the following week that the 1 0.1 release was done.
Now the data release is a minor release on the API the interface classes did not change at all it was
more of a specification change of how they behave.
I think they clarified some things in there but the interfaces have remained the same.
So let's take a quick look at some of the interfaces we have a publisher and this is going to provide
a unbounded number of elements so that our data stream and then we have a subscriber.
So this is going to consume consume from a publisher obviously subscription.
You can see that these interfaces are pretty simple to use and a lot of times are abstraction is going
to be really really simple to use and we'll be seeing we'll be definitely looking at examples of these.
And then finally processor to give you an idea how these all fit together.
This is how the streams are or processing.
So a publisher is going to be publishing events which are going to get consumed by a subscriber subscriber
is going to have a subscription to a publisher and through that subscription the subscriber can give
feedback on demand or back pressure and hoping and start envisioning how this works we're going to be
looking at some definitely be looking at some live examples in the coding of those.
But this is how these interfaces fit together.
Now in spring MVC and spring flux the reactive stuff is going to be under the right hand side the spring
web flex and what is happening inside the Spring Framework is the server that container or the server
that API is not reactive it is blocking.
So Spring Framework guys created a whole new stack a whole new web framework with inside a spring called
Spring web flux.
Now top of these we are still going to be using the controller and request mapping annotations or a
whole new functional API called router functions and you can use either one of these with spring him
with MC or spring.
So this is all handled by the framework and you can use either stack whether you want to be reactive
or use traditional servlet and there's really nothing wrong with traditional service.
It still works.
I mean it is still very robust programming API that we have to deal with the web environment so it still
ends in the Spring Framework.
It's not mandatory to use it's not bad use but for the act of functionality when you're in these high
volume streaming environments we do have this whole new reactive framework was Brank Netflix and we'll
be looking at that a lot closer in the spring.
NBC stuff does still support the traditional servlet container but the web flux we now have the option
of Tom-Kat Jedi Netti or undertow and these are different active implementations that we can work with.
Nettie is probably the most robust option but Tom-Kat is a little bit simpler and widely widely use
in your implementation to your needs can vary but you do have options.
In the Spring Framework will work with any of those.
Now the next thing we need talk about inside the Spring Framework is the spring RI act of types.
So there's two new reactive types introduced with Spring Framework five mano as a publisher with 0 or
1 elements in the data stream.
And this is important to understand 0 or 1 and then flux is zero or many elements inside the data stream
and want to point out that both of these types implement the ract of streams publisher interface and
I expect that you can probably work with just about any publisher inside of the Spring Framework.
Yes but we are going to be focusing on using the model influxes and using these datatypes and setting
up our spring controllers.
Now what you're going to see going forward in the class is because of Loyce bring it back up on slide
because of the way spring setup things are controller and request mapping.
Still there we still set up a controller in the same way but now we are going to be working with these
return types if we have a very active data store like we do with Mongo that reactive of call will go
through full stack and that is our goal to get here but we need to determine these define this terminology
first and the next upcoming videos are going to be looking at examples of converting over the controllers
that we've been working with to start leveraging these reactive types.